# Netflix-Movies-and-TV-shows-Clustering

This dataset consists of TV shows and movies available on Netflix as of 2019. The dataset is collected from Fixable which is a third-party Netflix search engine. In 2018, they released an interesting report which shows that the number of TV shows on Netflix has nearly tripled since 2010. The streaming service’s number of movies has decreased by more than 2,000 titles since 2010, while its number of TV shows has nearly tripled. It will be interesting to explore what all other insights can be obtained from the same dataset. Integrating this dataset with other external datasets such as IMDB ratings, rotten tomatoes can also provide many interesting findings.

First, we run Data Wrangling on our model to ensure that there are no duplicate entries in our dataset. After checking the duplicates in our dataset, we perform analysis for null values in our dataset. Here, we found more than 30% null values in the director's column. Then, we take appropriate action for null values according to the circumstances. We remove null values of the added_date columns because there is no logical way to deal with the null values of the date column.
In the second step, we perform EDA and Data Visualization on our dataset. Here, we found that the proportion of tv shows in Netflix content is very less as compared to the movies. We can observe that the majority of Netflix material is intended for adults. There is very little content available for teens and kids. The number of movies on Netflix is growing significantly faster than the number of TV shows. Because of covid-19, there is a significant drop in the number of movies and television episodes produced after 2019. Because of covid-19, there is a significant drop in the number of movies and television episodes produced after 2019.

The United States is the most prolific generator of Netflix content, with India and the United Kingdom trailing far behind. The majority of the content on Netflix in India is comprised of movies. The fundamental reason for the variation in content must be due to market research undertaken by Netflix. It is also interesting to see parallels between culturally comparable nations - the US and UK are closely aligned with their Netflix target ages, but radically different from, for example, India or Japan!

It is evident that international movies/ tv shows, tv dramas, and tv comedies are the top three genres with the most content on Netflix. It is interesting that International Movies tend to be Dramas.

Here, we perform the K-Means clustering on our dataset. Here, we find the optimal value of k is 25. But if we want to recommend some movies and tv shows then k=25 is not good so we did PCA then we take the value of k as 34. The silhouette score for k=25 is 0.027217317155321205.  which is a bad score but after PCA Silhouette score is 0.34895060389063276 that is good. Also performed recommender system with cosine similarities to reduce customer churn.
